# open-data-app-dondereciclo-malaga
Development of an Android Open Data App based on the actual available repository from [Datos Abiertos Ayto. Málaga](datosabiertos.malaga.eu/) (Spain).

According to the Open definition, a statement of principles around open infor-mation, open data is “data that can be freely used, modified and shared by anyone for any purpose”. Many different entities, such as government, private sector or academia, can open their data in several forms including financial data, geographic data, environmental data or even archives and collections metadata. After data is opened by any entity, it can be freely reused by others to create new knowledge and new applications of information for commercial and non-commercial use.

In this text, data collected and published by Spanish Government at municipal level, more concretely at the Malaga City Hall Open Data repository which can be found in. While the infrastructure around the publication of open data can be considered robust, just a few mechanisms have already been established to ascertain the innovative use of government open data. This innovative use can be material-ized in products, services, processes, management, market and social interventions and behaviour.

In what concerns sustainability, government – released open data is fuelling a whole new level of innovative Smart City applications that promote a change in the social behaviour towards more respectful actuations with environment. One of the fundamental issues in this field is the recycling of waste from urban and industrial activity.

Recycling is the process of taking used material and processing it to make some-thing new or reconditioning it. This is considered as a very environmentally friendly process since in addition to avoiding the waste of potentially useful materials, it re-duces the consumption of fresh raw materials and energy usage. Pollution levels are limited because waste material is not incinerated or buried. Many kinds of materials can be recycled, such as glass, paper, metal, plastics, textiles and electronics, but many highly developed countries still have a very poor record with respect to recycling.

For this use case, a simple Android application based on environmental open da-ta is designed and implemented with the main objective of demonstrate the use and visualization of government open data for Smart City applications, specifically in the field of sustainability.
